  
                       _ _               
                      | | |              
   ___  __ _ _ __   __| | |__   _____  __
  / __|/ _` | '_ \ / _` | '_ \ / _ \ \/ /
  \__ \ (_| | | | | (_| | |_) | (_) >  < 
  |___/\__,_|_| |_|\__,_|_.__/ \___/_/\_\
  

* http://github.com/nkryptic/sandbox

== DESCRIPTION:

Inspired by Python's virtualenv[http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv] 
project, Sandbox is a utility to create sandboxed Ruby/Rubygems environments.

It is meant to address the following issues:

* Conflicts with unspecified gem dependency versions.
* Applications can have their own gem repositories.
* Permissions for installing your own gems.
* Ability to try gems out without installing into your global repository.
* A Simple way to enable this.

Running from your own gem repositories is fairly straight-forward, but 
managing the necessary environment is a pain.  This utility will create a new
environment which may be activated by the script `bin/activate` in your
sandbox directory.

Run the script with the following to enable your new environment:
  
  $ source bin/activate_sandbox

When you want to leave the environment:
  
  $ deactivate_sandbox

== NOTES:

* It creates an environment that has its own installation directory for Gems.
* It doesn't share gems with other sandbox environments.
* It (optionally) doesn't use the globally installed gems either.
* It will use a local to the sandbox .gemrc file

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

Activating your sandbox environment will change your HOME directory
temporarily to the sandbox directory.  Other environment variables are set to
enable this funtionality, so if you may experience odd behavior.  Everything
should be reset when you deactivate the sandbox.

== USAGE:

Create a new sandbox (rake gem installed by default):
  $ cd ~/ruby-projects
  $ sandbox my-new-sandbox

Create a new sandbox with output (rake gem installed by default):
  $ cd ~/ruby-projects
  $ sandbox my-new-sandbox -v
  creating new sandbox in /home/nkryptic/ruby-projects/my-new-sandbox
  installing gems:
    gem: rake

Create a new sandbox with no gems installed:
  $ cd ~/ruby-projects
  $ sandbox my-new-sandbox -n
  creating new sandbox in /home/nkryptic/ruby-projects/my-new-sandbox
  installing gems:

Create a new sandbox with specific gems:
  $ cd ~/ruby-projects
  $ sandbox my-new-sandbox -g rake,rails
  creating new sandbox in /home/nkryptic/ruby-projects/my-new-sandbox
  installing gems:
    gem: rake
    gem: rails
    gem: rspec

== FUTURE PLANS:

I hope to expand the full version branch to allow for installing both rubygems
and ruby as part of the sandbox.  This would enable experimentation with
different versions of both and exclude the requirement on needing rubygems in
the first place.

== REQUIREMENTS:

* ruby
* rubygems (currently, until full version complete)

== INSTALL:

  sudo gem install nkryptic-sandbox -s http://gems.github.com

or

  sudo gem sources --add http://gems.github.com
  sudo gem install nkryptic-sandbox

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2008 Jacob Radford

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
